# Modder's notes:

Before anything else, I should probably say that I had pretty much zero plans for any of these maps. I just played around in Blender a lot and let the levels kind of form themselves, learning a tiny bit along the way. I definitely don't know anything about how to properly balance multiplayer maps - I'm a campaign and firefight creature - but I thought I could give multiplayer mapping a try.

I started making this mod with a question: "Could I build a Halo 3 level entirely out of prefabs?" The answer is, well, kind of. It first resulted in the map Generators, which harkens back to Zedd's Xbox 360 map Cabin Fever. I started out with the single room you see in the base game whilst exploring the rebuilt Halo ring and tried to see if I could make some branching corridors away from it. Then I had to come up with an answer to the question "Where do the corridors go?" Since there's not a lot to work with in the base game, I ended up mirroring the base, leaving me with a pair of very long corridors going between the two bases. I was about to call the experiment over right there and then, but I ended up giving it some more work - I added a red/blue theme to the map, added a pair of lightbridges to break up the corridors and lastly put in a pair of rooms branching off so there could be an alternate route between each base using teleporters. It's not the most interesting map but it served as a start, since I thought to myself, well, who is going to want to download a whole gigabyte just to play this? I'd have to have at least three maps to make it worth the hard drive space.

So I started on Badlands; I knew from the start that I wanted to do something with the geometry from the Ark however my first idea was using the rooms from the silent cartographer to make another all-indoor map but that sounded rather boring, so I figured I'd try making some terrain - it's something I had done before but never to much effect, always ending up with more open edges than I knew what to do with. I wanted to do better this time and more; I wanted it to fit in with the skybox rather than be a map just hanging in space. This didn't end up being too difficult, since one of the skyboxes for the Ark has a handy level shaped hole in it already, I just had to make my map fit into it. I did end up altering the skybox a little bit to better fit the terrain but not a huge amount. The most challenging part of making the map was adding the bunker, since the doorway to it doesn't normally connect up to that area in the base game so I had to get my hands dirty for once and make some edits and UV fixes to have it work without a bunch of open edges. There's still some UV issues that I've done my best to cover up since I couldn't fix them without making the terrain blend have seams. But I was happy with being able to actually make a map that wasn't entirely just stealing from Bungie.

The last map, Elysium, is nothing like what I had in mind. I wanted to do something human-based, since the previous two maps were both Forerunner themed, so I figured I'd do something with the Crow's Nest set. I did toy around with some parts from that level as well - I thought about having a pair of hangars connected to each other - but that area of campaign has so much complex geo that I didn't really feel up to the task, so instead I went with a Sierra 117 theme. I did think about stealing the bases from Valhalla, but that seemed a bit too boring and unoriginal even for me, so to begin with I was just using some of the fishing huts as bases. It was also originally going to be an outdoor map, since it makes sense to have a jungle map set on the jungle floor, but I accidentally changed my sky material to rocks and ended up rather liking it, so it became a cavern map instead, reminding me of a few dungeons in Skyrim. I knew I wanted an underground section though I didn't really have any idea how to model that into a map since I had a hard time wrapping my mind around the way I could keep the map sealed whilst doing so. That and I wasn't very familiar with using booleans - I'm still not entirely confident with them now but I did end up using them a lot to create the holes in the ceiling and caves in the walls. The name Elysium came from being a huge fan of the game Hades, with the top level of the map serving as Elysium and the underground area Asphodel - I did want to do more with lava to create a Tartarus area (the place in the underworld, not the Brute) however Halo doesn't have a lot of volcanic environments so I settled for making a big pit with a texture grabbed from Saber's Lockout remake.

Whilst I probably won't come back to these maps or make more multiplayer maps, it has given me some valuable experience in map-making that at some point I might put towards making some custom campaigns or Firefight maps. For the time being though I'm looking forward to actually playing some games for once since for the last month I haven't done too much other than work on these.
